Hello everyone and welcome to this.
Part 2 of the overview of data operations lecture and this lecture we're going to continue our understanding
of some of the most common data frame operations.
Let's go ahead and jump to our studio and get started.
All right here your studio right where we left off the last lecture talking not referencing columns
.
We're going to continue talking about data from operations by talking about adding rows to the data
frame.
Let's go ahead and clear this data frame for the consul excuse me and talk about topic number seven
adding rose to go ahead and create a data frame ZF to and call data frame pass in a column name call
the name that one set of equal to two thousand and say call by named to and equal to the string or character
you.
So if I take a look at this DFA to notice has the same column names as the data from or working before
the earth.
Except now I have two new entries.
The value 2000 and new in order to bind this new roads for a data frame.
All we have to do is use the our bind function that we already used in the past.
So I can say DFW call our Bines for binds and then I'm going to go ahead and pass on my original data
frame D.S. and then DFI to which is that data frame that I want to bind as a new row.
And now if I take a look at DFW you'll notice down at the bottom we have a new row.
New value is 2000 and you.
Now let's shift our focus.
Talking about adding new columns to a data frame.
There's a couple of different ways to do this.
I'm going to go ahead and show you a few of them.
Going to go out and clear the console and color ADF which is the original data frame column name one
column name two rows one through 10.
I can add a new column using the dollar sign method which is a dollar sign.
Create a new column name and then pass in whatever you want the column to be.
So imagine I wanted a new column that was just double values of column name one where I can go ahead
and do say two times and then pass in the data frame if dollar sign called out Name one.
And now if we look at B-F you'll notice we have a value new call for this new column and it's just double
the value of column name 1.
And that's one way you can quickly create new columns onto a data frame instead of using something like
row binder see buying that we saw earlier.
It's much easier to just go ahead and name your new column directly with some sort of assignments of
that new column.
Keep in mind that these values should line up as far as a number of elements for your column.
This sort of operation is also really useful if you want to make copies of columns.
So for instance we take a look at if we have called Name one called Name 2 and in that new column let's
say I wanted to make a copy of my new column I could say if dollar sign new call and have that just
be equal to Deif dollar sign you call.
But instead of calling it you call it I'm going to do is say you call that copy.
Now if I do this it's going to go ahead and check out the name.
The head of media.
You'll see I have a copy of that new column.
You can also use any other of the column references we've talked about.
So for instance I could say D.S. brackets comma and then put in new call let's say copy to then assign
this to DMF new call.
So now if I check head of D.S. I have the second copy here.
So I have new call you call the copy new call the copy to.
The only difference between this sort of operation and this line that I'm highlighting versus this operation
is just the way I'm addressing the column.
So classic notation is just dollar sign method but you can also use the brackets and comma method for
denoting that new column.
It's really up to you and what you feel more comfortable with.
But the basic premise is that you call a column as if it's already on your data frame but remember to
give it some new assignment for new values and that's the basic way of adding new columns to your data
.
So we've gone over adding rows adding columns.
Up next is setting column names.
We already know and went over that if we just say call names we can get back the names of the columns
of our data frame if we want to actually rename columns what we can do is use column names.
Passen are data frame and there's two things we can do if we wanted to rename all of them at once.
We could just pass a vector of new names so I could say one and that isn't just passing characters.
These aren't actually integers 3 for what's good and say five.
So I have columns 1 2 3 4 5 so we'll rename them to just those numbers 1 2 3 4 5 and then if we check
out the head of our data frame notice now instead of those original column names you just have 1 2 3
4 and 5.
So that's what you could do if you wanted to rename all the columns at once if you just wanted to rename
a single column but you'd end up doing is calling call names DPF and then with brackets you would go
ahead and select what column number you want to rename.
So for instance let's say I want to rename the first column.
I'll say one and then I'll just say new column name.
Pass that as a string.
And if I check the head of the IDF notice I have a new code name for that first column and my data frame
.
And again quick note here this is an integer not a character.
All right.
So that's the basic overview of the topic of column names in a data frame as far as setting them.
You have a few more topics go over and those are selecting multiple rows selecting multiple columns
and then dealing with missing data.
Let's talk about how to select most Choros.
We've already gone in the first part of this lecture series on how to select the single row.
Let's talk about selecting multiple rows.
Actually quite easy.
And it's really similar to how we selected the multiple rows in a matrix.
All you have to do is put in the name of your data frame and then what you can do is go ahead and slice
the rows you want.
So if you wanted the first 10 rows you would just use or slicing notation comma.
And that's one way of selecting the first 10 rows.
You can go ahead and say selects first let's say three rows.
Now returns first three rows.
This is essentially the same as calling the head of your data frame both for a specific number of rows
that you want returns.
Now the way you can do this is just by using head sooner that if we just say head data frame.
I'll return the first six rows but you can always specify how many rows you want back as far as these
top rows and you can specify that a second argument.
So let's say I want the first seven rows of my data frame I can say DF comma seven and I'll return the
first seven rows.
You can also take advantage of negative sign to select everything but a certain row.
So imagine I wanted to select everything but row 2.
I'm going to go out and clear the consul here.
So we have data frame.
Let's just say head of data frame and I want to select everything.
But the second row.
So notice how second row has a bunch of other unwieldy numbers there.
We want to select everything.
But that second row I can say with brackets we say to comma that would have selected the second row
by say negative to comma that selects everything but the second row.
OK.
And so you can use those data signs in a few other operations with our in order to say everything.
But now we'll go over those as they come up throughout the course.
Finally I want to go over conditional selection and in order to do this we're going to be using empty
cars data frame so that's empty cars.
And it looks like this we can do conditional selection on a data frame by passing in logical conditions
.
We want to filter by and the syntax for that is as follows.
I'll say something like empty cars brackets.
And then let's say I wanted to pass or get back every car or every row where the MPG was greater than
20 mpg.
What I would then end up doing is assin the name of my data frame in this case.
Empty cars dollar sign.
MPG is the column I'm interested in and I will say greater then 20.
So he used this comparison operator.
All right.
So if I just do this I'll get back in air.
And the reason I'm getting back the air is because I have undefine columns selected.
So what I actually need to do is remember the pass in it comma here.
So students sometimes forget to pass and that comma and they get this undefine column selected.
So remember that if you're getting this undefine column selected it's because you forgot to say Oh give
me back all the columns for that.
And now we get back the state of frame.
And we can break this down by thinking.
We're asking are for empty cars data frame where this statement is true for the rows where the column
of them e.g. is greater than 20.
So we're just saying give me back the rows where this is true.
Comma all the columns for that.
So then you can also pass in addition arguments over here for specific columns back.
Let's go ahead and build on top of this example by filtering by two separate columns.
So for example I have empty cars.
Let's go ahead and show the head them see cars so mpg cylinders horsepower etc. I can say empty cars
rackets I can put it in one condition like we saw earlier where I say empty cars.
MPG is greater than 20.
Well let's say I also wanted the number of cylinders to be equal to six cylinders.
So that's this second column c y l cylinders.
I would then say and put that and operator there and say and empty cars dollar sign c y l is equal to
6.
And remember to put in a comma here and sometimes it's also nice to put in parentheses around your logical
for comparison operator statements just so it's a little easier to read you can see what are the two
separate factors that you're trying to compare and you'll see we'll get back empty cars where the MPG
was greater than 20 and the number of cylinders was equal to six if you wanted to only get specific
cones back from this.
You could add that in as a second argument over here.
So for instance let's say we only wanted to get HP or horsepower back for these cars.
Well it's a MPG cylinder and HP I couldn't pasan a vector of those column names say mpg cylinder horsepower
.
And now we only get back those columns.
This is the kind of filtering you're going to be doing all the time when you're importing data from
a CSFB and playing around a fit trying to visualize it.
Get an idea of what it looks like.
So these are the kind of things that we're trying to build up to and use a lot throughout the course
.
These sort of statements.
Now this is how you can select rows or multiple rows based on some sort of condition.
You can also use the subset function to do the exact same thing.
So the subset function you say subset passing your data frame in this case it's actually empty cars
.
And then you basically do all these same commands except you don't have to worry about calling it off
the data frame.
Since you already passed the data frame into the subset function so it knows what you're actually talking
about.
So you can say something like MPG greater than 20 and empty cars.
Sit ups use me and cylinders equals to six.
So now return the same subset as this call.
But notice what's nice about using subset if you prefer to use it that way is that you don't have to
continually say empty cars dollar sign in the name of the column.
Since you passed in the data frame it's subset function it already knows what you mean when you say
something like MPG or seat y l.
All right.
So that's the basics of using a subset or this sort of bracket notation use whatever you feel most comfortable
with.
Let's go ahead and clear the console.
We've already seen a few examples of how to select the multiple column names.
Foolishest review them quickly.
So I'll say have empty cars.
Check the head of it one more time just so we can take a look at those column names we have.
MPG cylinder.
So I want to select multiple columns.
There's a few ways I can do this.
I can say empty cars brackets nothing comma and then a vector of either the numbers that relate to the
columns I want.
So for example if I want columns 1 2 and 3 in this case or B mpg c y l the ISP it returns back.
If we scroll up here those street columns the other way of doing this we actually just saw is by saying
passing in the actual names is a feel like MPG comma.
See y while etc..
And if we scroll up to see this it just returns this column.
So we asked for.
So it's up to you.
Usually I'll probably be using something like this.
As you remember the order of the columns you just remember the name of the columns.
Finally let's clear the consul and talk about dealing with missing data.
So dealing with missing data is a pretty important skill to know especially when you're working with
data frames.
And there's a couple of useful built in functions to help you find missing data and check if there's
missing data in your data front.
So the way to do this is let's say we want to detect if there were any missing data points or an eight
points.
When I say any names we have no oil are missing data there.
To wanted to take them anywhere in our data frame.
How can we do that.
We can say is not an A.
And then passing your data frame So let's say we pass in empty cars if we pass this is an antique cars
.
We get back this data frame of boolean values.
So we say false false fossils false.
And notice we get all falses because there is no missing information in the state of frame.
If for some reason one of these had an essay or no value we will get a true somewhere around the state
of frame.
So the way you can quickly check if you have any known or any are missing data in your data frame is
bypassing that same argument.
And we go in and clear the council.
So we say is N.A. Asin your data frame and you can take advantage of the any function and that will
check if any of those valleys is true.
In this case none of those values are true so we get false back that if any single one of those values
and that is that and a check on your data frame was true you would have gotten a true back as a report
.
So this is a nice little shortcut any isn't a data frame in order to check if you have any missing points
anywhere in your data frame.
Again you can expand this idea if you want to check if they're anywhere in a certain column.
You can just pass in the set of your data frame pass in your column such as let's say for dealing with
empty cars in pass in mpg.
And if you wanted the whole empty car's data frame just say or any of them.
No.
Or N.A. if you want to replace missing data you can do that by taking advantage of this.
Is that an a call so we can say something like this.
Our data frame in this case will say D.S. will check is the whoops we'll put in a bracket and say is
at a pass in your data frame and you can go ahead and pass in the values you want to replace.
You can say replace all know values of physico.
Usually you probably won't want to do such a broad command since it's going to do this for every single
column in your data frame.
But just keep that in mind.
You can use the sort of is that in a notation check to replace null values.
Do you only want it to do this for a single selected column.
You'd use the exact same notation but you would pass and column names instead.
So you would say something like for instance for the empty cars.
Let's say we had a missing values in the MPG column you would say empty cars dollar sign mpg for the
MPG column is dot and a you would say empty cars.
Dollar Sign this case mpg.
And then you would go ahead and replace that with whatever value you wanted to replace that with zero
.
What's nice is you can then also use something like mean of some column such as empty cars MPG to quickly
replace no values with the average value of that column.
And that's kind of a common method for dealing with missing data.
Really depends on what your data looks like and what best practices are for that situation you're dealing
with.
But this sort of line can be really useful to quickly compute average or mean data into a column that's
missing values.
All right I hope that helped.
Remember to use the notes as a reference in order to fully understand or reference a cheat sheet for
this lecture.
OK.
Thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture